chore(memory): promote strong-fit messaging drafts from memory-pipeline for review (#120)
medic/cht-agent: agent-memory/domains/messaging/issues/10802-message-pending-state.md

> issueNumber: 10802

Reviewer: **issue (accuracy):** this draft (Code Patterns / Solution, ~L54) uses `task.status`, but the real scheduled-task field is `task.state` (`SCHEDULED_STATE='scheduled'` in `shared-libs/transitions/src/schedule/due_tasks.js`). The `isDue()`/`due_date` snippet doesn't exist (the code uses `task.due || task.timestamp || doc.reported_date`), and the Related Files list `api/src/controllers/scheduled_tasks.js` + `sentinel/src/schedule/task-processor.js`, which neither source PR (#10803/#10811) touches. For a memory draft these would mislead an agent — please align to the real code or drop the fabricated specifics.

2. When a document had multiple `scheduled_tasks` with identical due dates and one was stuck in `scheduled` state, the system continuously added already-processed messages back to the pending queue
3. Created a feedback loop where the same message was resent every processing cycle (every 5 minutes) regardless of its current status

> The code only checked the task's computed due value (`task.due || task.timestamp || doc.reported_date`) against the collected due dates, without checking whether the task was already processed or had moved to a different `state`. More precisely, `due_tasks.js` trusted the (eventually-consistent) `messages_by_state` CouchDB view results and did not re-verify each message's current state on the freshly loaded/hydrated document before mutating it; a message already transitioned out of the schedulable state (muted, cleared, or already sent) still appeared in the view and was reprocessed (PR #10803, PR #10811).

Reviewer: issue (blocking): the second sentence states a mechanism the code rules out. A message that had already transitioned never appears in the view result: `execute()` queries `messages_by_state` keyed on `['scheduled', due]`, so the view returns only the still-scheduled sibling task. `processBatch` collects that row's due date into the per-document `dueDates` list, and `updateScheduledTasks` then loops over all of `doc.scheduled_tasks`, promoting any task that matches on due date alone. That loop is what reached the already-sent message, and the bug reproduces with a perfectly fresh index, so eventual consistency points at the wrong fix. Bullets 1-3 above already state the real mechanism correctly.

```suggestion
The code only checked the task's computed due value (`task.due || task.timestamp || doc.reported_date`) against the collected due dates, without checking whether the task had moved to a different `state`. More precisely, the view vouches for one task while the update loop acts on all of them: `execute()` queries `messages_by_state` with `startkey`/`endkey` keyed on `['scheduled', due]`, so only still-scheduled tasks are returned; `processBatch` groups those rows by document and collects their due values into a single per-document `dueDates` list; and `updateScheduledTasks` then iterates every entry in `doc.scheduled_tasks`, promoting any whose computed due value appears in that list. A task that had already moved out of `scheduled` was therefore never returned by the view at all. It was reached because it shared a due date with a still-scheduled sibling on the same document, which is why the fix is a per-task state guard inside that loop rather than a change to the view or the query (PR #10803, PR #10811).
```

- shared-libs/transitions/src/schedule/due_tasks.js
- shared-libs/transitions/test/unit/due_tasks.js
- tests/integration/sentinel/schedules/due-tasks.spec.js (sentinel integration coverage; PR #10803, PR #10811)

## Testing

- Added integration test to verify that only scheduled tasks are processed in each window
- Test simulates multiple tasks with same due date and different statuses
- Verified that processed tasks don't get re-added to pending queue
- Added a sentinel integration test case (+69 lines) to the pre-existing `tests/integration/sentinel/schedules/due-tasks.spec.js` asserting scheduled_tasks are only updated to `pending` when still in the `scheduled` state and left untouched otherwise (PR #10803, PR #10811)

> ## Related Issues

Reviewer: issue (blocking): line 102 cross-references #10754 as 'Scheduled task duplicate processing (similar issue)'. cht-core #10754 is 'Cookies not being sent with `secure: true`', a closed cookie bug in api, unrelated to scheduled tasks. Please delete the bullet or replace it with a genuinely related issue.
